---
layout: project
title: ACE Grow Unit
type: Precision Agriculture
date: September 22, 2014
image: ace.png
---

## Background
The quality and rate at which vegetation occurs in a ponic farm strongly correlates to the degree in which environmental variables are controlled.

## Description
The motivation of this project is to develop a controlled platform while conducting horticulture experiments.  Identified as Project Autonomous Control Environment, or ACE, this unit bears the capability to fully automate the farming process without any user input.  It is retrofitted from a functioning Craigslist upright freezer and equipped with a number of environmental control systems to ensure consistent and reliable grow data throughout the obseration process.  Further included are novel sensory designs to better quantify the outcome of experimentation.

This illustration marks the transition in which our startup has made - specifically in the field of research and development.  In learning about our team's core compentencies, we've realized our strengths in precision engineering and intend to explore this capability in a niche setting.


## First Grow
From components gathered at the local hardware store, a loosely defined aeroponic was developed using two storage containers, PCV tubing, an aquarium pump, water irrigators, grow medium, and a florescent lightbulb.  Completely exploratory, a fertilizer designed for tomato plants was dissolved into the water solution and irrigated continuously for approximately 60 days.  Lettuce seeds were used in the study.

The experiment, as conducted during my junior undergraduate year, was an eye-opening experiment that truly brought attention to the consequences of an uncontrolled experiment.


## Second Grow and MakerFaire
## Embedded System Monitoring and Control
## Horticultural LEDs
## Commercial Hydroponics
## Consumer Product
## Temperature Control
## Light Control
## Research Unit Design
## Going Forward
