---
layout: project
title: Quadrotor Navigation
date: September 14, 2014
image: quad.png
type: Mechatronics
---

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iVoB7m8_3Ho" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

## Background
Toy-level quadcopters have substantially decreased in price over the last few years, but at a cost for quality hardware.  Specifically, lower-level tier quadcopters typically have no technology onboard for pose feedback and localization.  As a result, the craft tends to drift in random directions.

## Predecessing Knowledge
Largely inspired by the work in monocular tracking at the (University of Zurich)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Ui3MoOxcPQ], the motivation of this project is to derive a six dimensional pose of a quadcopter through a perceived configuration of IR LEDs attached onboard to the craft.  A large aspect of the project is developing a controller that is fast enough to avoid instabilities, especially in the presence of humans.

## Hardware Modifications
Given that the wireless controller is operated via two dual-axis potentiometer joysticks, the task of interfacing my own microcontroller via PWM control of an RC circuit was quite simple.  A breakout was included so as to improve the servicibility of the wireless controller.

On the quadcopter, a lasercut module containing a DC-to-DC converter and infrared configuration was mounted to the underside.  To address the rapidly depleating voltage of an onboard battery, a 30V supply was delivered through 24 AWG wire into the converter, where it is regulated to 3V for the quadcopter.  The 3V circuit also powers the infrared LEDs, which are mounted using located features, and serves as an accurate technique for accurately estimating pose from software.

## Kalman Filtering


## ROS Environment


## Results


