---
layout: project
title: Differential Roller Screw
date: September 15, 2014
image: hand.png
type: Design
---

## Where the RIC Myoelectric Prosthesis is today:
<center><iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jh_l2gWUz30" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

## Background
Myoelectric (robotic) upper limb prostheses are often too large and cumbersome for smaller amputees, especially among women and children.  The motivation of this project is to develop a myoelectric limb to the proportional size, weight, and strength of a 25th percentile female, implying that an appropriately sized limb will be more plausibly available for humans smaller than a 50th male.

## Technical Description
My research focus was in the linear transmission  mechanism used to actuate the hand and elbow.  Specifically, this involved developing an analytical model of a differential roller screw assembly.

A differential roller screw is a type of linear transmission in which the angular velocity of a leadscrew and tagentially mated nut are not equal, thus creating differential motion at the advantage of higher translational forces.  The nut and screw transmit forces through an ideal rolling contact model.  A fundamental point to this idea, it is assumed that losses of power will not be the result of sliding contact, as is found in a typical power screw assembly.  Upon developing an analytical model, a high-resolution 3D-printed prototype (with printed helical threads) was fabricated and evaluated for efficiencies in a dynamometer.

Though we did establish a predictable trend in the design parameters and output efficiencies, it was not anticipated that the highest available resolution 3D-printed parts would impact the resultant efficiency to the degree that it did.  Continuing with the research, we would eliminate any constraints in resolution, through perhaps vapor smoothing, and also explore metal alternatives.


